Table of Contents

Introduction

Open Tactics is an open sourced tactics genre game. Currently the game is incomplete, buggy, and ugly. The vision of the project is to release a customizable tactics game at some point (though this is unlikely to happen). There are some ambitious goals that may be attempted along the way.

Gameplay
	At a high level, the game is a one vs. one grid based game board similar to a chess board. Each side controls the pieces on their side and tries to defeat the other side's pieces. The pieces come with a wide variety of items and abilities. 

	Game Modes
		Single Player
			Single game
				Custom, draft
			Campaign
			Story
		Multi Player
			One vs. One
		Walk Around
			TBD
			Single Player
			Maybe some MP additions
		Reinforcement Learning / AI / AI vs. AI Game Mode
	Gameloop
		State Map

Builders

Goal is to allow players to build and use a variety of customizable game objects. Ie a user can create an ability or item and add it to a custom character. The custom character can be used on a created map, campaign, or story. Longer term, version and game rule builders can alter the rules of the gameplay.

	Ability Builder: Create a custom ability a unit can use.
	Campaign Builder: Create a custom collection of levels that can be played in sequence.
	Character Builder: Create a custom character with various stats, items, classes, and abilities.
	Class Builder: Create a custom class which contains various stats and abilities.
	Game Rule Builder: TBD. Create a variety of rules that alters the gameplay.
	Item Builder: Create a custom item a character can equip.
	Map Builder: Create a custom map to play the game on.
	Story Builder: Create an RPG style story where units play a variety of maps, gain experience, learn abilities, and buy items.
	Version Builder: TBD. Create a specialized version packaging all types of created builders.

Major Topics
	Reintroducing One vs. One online multiplayer
	Leveraging Reinforcement Learning
		Training AI
		Game Balance
		AI vs. AI Game Mode
	Walkaround mode
	Headless mode for faster simulation of game play
		Can train RL from this
		Can build out the scene from a small amount of information
		Can simulate 'off map' results
	Graphics/UI/Sound/Particles/Music/Animation
		Minimal acceptable version that is open sourced so anyone can build on it
		Way for users to customize based on preferences
		Way to stub it out so these options can be altered easily in future versions
	Way to share/mod between users
		Various custom builds (ie a story build by one player can be shared to another)
		Graphics/UI/Sound/Particles/Music/Animation
		

Roadmap
	0.1 Bare bones version
		Can be downloaded and edited by others
		Working versions of:
			Custom game
			All builders
		Proof of concept worked at some point:
			Multiplayer, Reinforcement Learning
		Basic docs

	0.2 Moderate improvements
		Docs fleshed out
		Major areas of concerns identified
		Roadmap for major topics identified
		Next steps identified